Alx-system_engineering-devops(0x09-Web infrastructure design)

Definitions and Explanations.

1. What is a server?
A server is a computer program or device which provides a service to another computer program 
and its user. It is also known as the "client". 

2. What is the role of a domain name?
A domain name helps to identify Internet resources in a text-based label that is easier to 
remind than numerical addresses (IP addresses).

3. What type of DNS record www is in www.foobar.com?
It is a "cname", which helps to record www from the Domain Name System (DNS).

4. What is the role of the Web Server?
It helps to store, process and display website contents (codebase) as well as deliver 
web pages to users through the protocol HTTP.

5. What is the role of the application server?
It helps to generate dynamic contents by executing server-side code such as JSP, Ajax, PHP, etc.

6. What is the role of the database?
It helps to manage data systematically and efficiently in a well-organized manner which allows 
data to be easily insert, update, delete, manage and manipulate.

7. What is the server using to communicate with the computer of the user requesting
the website?
The server uses HTTP protocol to communicate over the internet.


Issues:

A. SPOF (Single Point Of Failure)
A single point of failure is a part of a system that, if it fails, will stop the entire 
system from working. There are a lot of single points of failures starting from having one 
server that contains only one web server, application server, and database. 

B. Downtime when maintenance is needed (like deploying a new code web server
needs to be restarted)? 
The downtime period might be longer than expected because the server is dependent on one code 
base which at that moment, isn’t available. Therefor, users will not be able to access the 
website and its contents which results in a bad user experience and loss of traffic.

C. Cannot scale if too much incoming traffic? 
The DNS points directly at the server hence it doesn’t contain a load balancer which 
allows handling increased loads easier. This poses an issue to the volume of users trying to 
access the website’s content and can lead to bad user experience or rather set a limit to the
number of users the website will be able to accommodate.

