Alx-system_engineering-devops(0x09-Web infrastructure design)


Definitions and Explanations.

1. For every additional element, why are adding it? 
I have added three new components, a firewall for each server to protect them from being 
attacked and exploited. One SSL certificate to server www.foobar.com over HTTPS and three 
monitoring clients that will collect logs and send them to my data collector.

2. What are firewalls for? 
It is a network security system that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing network 
traffic based on predetermined security rules. It is basically establishes a barrier between 
a trusted network and an untrusted network.

3. Why is the traffic served over HTTPS? 
It is because previously the traffic was passed over Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) which 
transfers data in plain text while HTTPS is secure where the data is encrypted using Transfer 
Layer Security (TLS).

4. What monitoring is used for? 
It provides the capability to detect and diagnose any web application performance issues 
proactively.

5. How the monitoring tool is collecting data? 
It collects logs of the application server, MySQL Database and Nginx web server. A log in a 
computing context is the automatically produced and time-stamped documentation of events 
relevant to a particular system.

6. Explain what to do if you want to monitor your web server QPS? 
A web server handles 1K queries per second (QPS), I would basically monitor it from the network 
and application level.

Issues

A. Why terminating SSL at the load balancer level is an issue? 
Because decryption is resource and CPU intensive. Placing the decryption burden on the load 
balancer enables the server to spend processing power on application tasks.

B. Why having only one MySQL server capable of accepting writes is an issue?
Because once it is down it means data can be added or updated some features of the 
application and it won’t work.

C. Why having servers with all the same components (database, web server and
application server) might be a problem? 
Because once you have a bug in one of the components in one of the servers then the bug will 
be valid in the other servers.

